https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/sydney-sweeneys-anti-woke-boobs

sydney-sweeneys-anti-woke-boobs

About
Sydney Sweeney's Anti-Woke Boobs refers to a sentiment among some conservatives online that actress Sydney Sweeney's March 2024 appearance on Saturday Night Live, in which she notably wore outfits that emphasized her cleavage, was somehow an affront to woke culture. This sentiment led to an editorial in Canada's National Post, leading to jokes and debate online.
Origin
On March 3rd, 2023, Sydney Sweeney hosted Saturday Night Live. The episode notably featured several skits centered around Sweeney's breasts. Following the show, Twitter / X user @RichardHanania[1] posted a clip of Sweeney from the end of the show, with her in a dress that prominently features her cleavage, writing, "wokeness is dead." The tweet gained over 6,300 retweets and 57,000 likes in four days (shown below).
Spread
Later on March 3rd, 2024, Ian Miles Cheong echoed @RichardHanania's sentiment, tweeting both the Sweeney video and a video of a carpenter doing ceiling installation, arguing that because the videos were popular on TikTok and X at the time, wokeness was dead.[3] The tweet gained over 3,500 retweets and 48,000 likes in four days (shown below).
The sentiment inspired confusion and debate on social media. On March 4th, 2024, Twitter user @waco_warren[2] quote tweeted RichardHanania, asking, "I’m genuinely curious as to what woke means to white people lol," gaining over 7,500 retweets and 118,000 likes in three days (shown below, top).
On March 6th, writer Amy Hamm of the National Post[4] published an article arguing that "Wokeness is no match for Sydney Sweeney's undeniable beauty." In the article, she argues that admiring Sweeney's conventional attractiveness amounts to a stance against wokeness. She writes:
We’ve spent years being chastised for desiring or admiring beauty -- because beauty is rare and exclusionary, and to exclude is to hate -- or so we’ve been scolded to accept by today’s diversity, equity, and inclusion fanatics. We aren’t supposed to admire Sweeney’s beauty; but we’ve done it anyways.
The piece also quotes Jordan Peterson's much-memed Sorry, Not Beautiful tweet and defended him as an "unrepentant thought criminal" and the recent wave of Sweeney praise amounts to validation of his point.
The piece was widely mocked on Twitter. On March 6th, Twitter user @DavidDoel[5] screenshot the piece's first line – "Are Sydney Sweeney’s breasts double-D harbingers of the death of woke?" – in mockery, gaining over 2,400 retweets and 30,000 likes in one day (shown below, left). User @UweBollocks[6] quote-tweeted the National Post article saying, "Big fat honkers made me racist," gaining over 20 retweets and 520 likes in one day (shown below, right).
